docs/source/model_import.rst, before:

Model Import
============

Snap ML supports importing tree ensembles models that were trained with other frameworks (e.g., scikit-learn, XGBoost, LightGBM) so one can leverage Snap ML's accelerated inference engine.
One can import a model either by:

* instantiating the corresponding Snap ML class (e.g., :class:`snapml.RandomForestClassifier`) and then call the :func:`import_model` member function (e.g., :func:`snapml.RandomForestClassifier.import_model`)
* calling the generic :func:`snapml.import_model` function documented below, which will detect the type of model from the model file and return the corresponding Snap ML class.

Details regarding which Snap ML classes can import which types of pre-trained model, and which model formats are supported are given in the following table:

+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| Pre-trained Model                                | Supported Formats | Target Snap ML Class                      |
+==================================================+===================+===========================================+
| :class:`xgboost.XGBClassifier`                   | PMML, ONNX, JSON  | :class:`snapml.BoostingMachineClassifier` |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`xgboost.XGBRegressor`                    | PMML, ONNX, JSON  | :class:`snapml.BoostingMachineRegressor`  |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`lightgbm.LGBMClassifier`                 | PMML, ONNX, Text  | :class:`snapml.BoostingMachineClassifier` |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`lightgbm.LGBMRegressor`                  | PMML, ONNX, Text  | :class:`snapml.BoostingMachineRegressor`  |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`snapml.BoostingMachineClassifier`        | PMML              | :class:`snapml.BoostingMachineClassifier` |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`snapml.BoostingMachineRegressor`         | PMML              | :class:`snapml.BoostingMachineRegressor`  |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestClassifier` | PMML, ONNX        | :class:`snapml.RandomForestClassifier`    |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestRegressor`  | PMML, ONNX        | :class:`snapml.RandomForestRegressor`     |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+--------+----------------------------------+
| :class:`sklearn.ensemble.ExtraTreesClassifier`   | PMML, ONNX        | :class:`snapml.RandomForestClassifier`    |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`sklearn.ensemble.ExtraTreesRegressor`    | PMML, ONNX        | :class:`snapml.RandomForestRegressor`     |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`snapml.RandomForestClassifier`           | PMML              | :class:`snapml.RandomForestClassifier`    |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`snapml.RandomForestRegressor`            | PMML              | :class:`snapml.RandomForestRegressor`     |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+

.. autofunction:: snapml.import_model

Commit message:

Added text regarding pickle/jkoblic
Signed-off-by: Thomas Parnell <tpa@zurich.ibm.com>

docs/source/model_import.rst, after:

Model Import
============

Snap ML supports importing tree ensembles models that were trained with other frameworks (e.g., scikit-learn, XGBoost, LightGBM) so one can leverage Snap ML's accelerated inference engine.
One can import a model either by:

* instantiating the corresponding Snap ML class (e.g., :class:`snapml.RandomForestClassifier`) and then call the :func:`import_model` member function (e.g., :func:`snapml.RandomForestClassifier.import_model`)
* calling the generic :func:`snapml.import_model` function documented below, which will detect the type of model from the model file and return the corresponding Snap ML class.

Details regarding which Snap ML classes can import which types of pre-trained model, and which model formats are supported are given in the following table:

+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| Pre-trained Model                                | Supported Formats | Target Snap ML Class                      |
+==================================================+===================+===========================================+
| :class:`xgboost.XGBClassifier`                   | PMML, ONNX, JSON  | :class:`snapml.BoostingMachineClassifier` |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`xgboost.XGBRegressor`                    | PMML, ONNX, JSON  | :class:`snapml.BoostingMachineRegressor`  |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`lightgbm.LGBMClassifier`                 | PMML, ONNX, Text  | :class:`snapml.BoostingMachineClassifier` |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`lightgbm.LGBMRegressor`                  | PMML, ONNX, Text  | :class:`snapml.BoostingMachineRegressor`  |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`snapml.BoostingMachineClassifier`        | PMML              | :class:`snapml.BoostingMachineClassifier` |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`snapml.BoostingMachineRegressor`         | PMML              | :class:`snapml.BoostingMachineRegressor`  |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestClassifier` | PMML, ONNX        | :class:`snapml.RandomForestClassifier`    |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestRegressor`  | PMML, ONNX        | :class:`snapml.RandomForestRegressor`     |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+--------+----------------------------------+
| :class:`sklearn.ensemble.ExtraTreesClassifier`   | PMML, ONNX        | :class:`snapml.RandomForestClassifier`    |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`sklearn.ensemble.ExtraTreesRegressor`    | PMML, ONNX        | :class:`snapml.RandomForestRegressor`     |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`snapml.RandomForestClassifier`           | PMML              | :class:`snapml.RandomForestClassifier`    |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| :class:`snapml.RandomForestRegressor`            | PMML              | :class:`snapml.RandomForestRegressor`     |
+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+

Note that the standard way to save and load models trained with Snap ML is using pickle/joblib. However, since the resulting binary models depend on the endianness of the platform, it is currently not possible to save a model on an Intel™ (x86_64) platform and then load it on an IBM Z™ (s390x)  platform (and vice-versa). To overcome this issue, we also provide support for exporting and importing tree ensembles trained with Snap ML via the platform-independent PMML format. For details regarding how to export Snap ML tree ensembles as PMML see the documentation for the corresponding member functions (e.g., :func:`snapml.RandomForestClassifier.export_model`).


.. autofunction:: snapml.import_model
